.Dd March 11, 2026
.Dt MAC-MP4-SCREEN-REC 1
.Os
.Sh NAME
.Nm mac-mp4-screen-rec
.Nd convert macOS screen recordings and other configured video files with ffmpeg
.Sh SYNOPSIS
.Nm
.Ar command
.Op options
.Sh DESCRIPTION
.Nm
manages a per-user
.Xr launchd 8
agent that watches configured directories, runs
.Xr ffmpeg 1
against matching files, and optionally deletes successful source files after a retention window.
.Pp
Default behavior watches
.Pa ~/Desktop ,
only converts files named
.Dq Screen Recording*
with the
.Pa .mov
extension, writes sibling
.Pa .mp4
files with
.Fl c:v copy
and
.Fl c:a copy ,
and deletes the original immediately after a successful conversion.
.Sh COMMANDS
.Bl -tag -width "config --remove-audio-codec-map pcm_s16le"
.It Ic add Ar path
Add a watched directory.
.It Ic remove Ar path
Remove a watched directory.
.It Ic list
Show the active configuration.
.It Ic config
Show the active configuration.
.It Ic config Fl -all-files
Convert all files whose extensions match
.Ic input_extensions .
.It Ic config Fl -all-movs
Legacy alias for
.Fl -all-files .
.It Ic config Fl -only-recordings
Only convert files whose names begin with
.Dq Screen Recording .
.It Ic config Fl -keep-original-days Ar days
Keep successful originals for the given number of days before deletion.
Use
.Li 0
to delete originals immediately.
.It Ic config Fl -input-extensions Ar ext1,ext2,...
Comma-separated list of input file extensions to scan for.
.It Ic config Fl -output-extension Ar ext
Output container extension to write.
.It Ic config Fl -video-codec Ar codec
Default codec name passed to
.Xr ffmpeg 1
as
.Fl c:v .
.It Ic config Fl -audio-codec Ar codec
Default codec name passed to
.Xr ffmpeg 1
as
.Fl c:a .
.It Ic config Fl -map-video-codec Ar input=output
Override the output video codec when the detected source video codec matches
.Ar input .
.It Ic config Fl -map-audio-codec Ar input=output
Override the output audio codec when the detected source audio codec matches
.Ar input .
.It Ic config Fl -remove-video-codec-map Ar input
Remove one video codec override.
.It Ic config Fl -remove-audio-codec-map Ar input
Remove one audio codec override.
.It Ic config Fl -clear-video-codec-maps
Remove all video codec overrides.
.It Ic config Fl -clear-audio-codec-maps
Remove all audio codec overrides.
.It Ic convert
Run one immediate scan and cleanup pass without waiting for
.Xr launchd 8 .
.It Ic start
Load the background service.
.It Ic stop
Unload the background service.
.It Ic status
Show service state and current configuration.
.It Ic help
Show command help.
.It Ic version
Show the installed version.
.El
.Sh CONFIGURATION
The config file is stored at:
.Pp
.Pa ~/.config/mac-mp4-screen-rec/config
.Pp
Current keys:
.Bl -tag -width "keep_original_days"
.It Ic paths
Watched directories, one per line after the
.Ic paths:
header.
.It Ic mode
Either
.Ic recordings-only
or
.Ic all-files .
.It Ic keep_original_days
Retention window for successful source files.
.It Ic input_extensions
Comma-separated list of file extensions to scan.
.It Ic output_extension
Extension used for sibling output files.
.It Ic video_codec
Fallback codec passed as
.Fl c:v .
.It Ic audio_codec
Fallback codec passed as
.Fl c:a .
.It Ic video_codec_map
Optional codec-specific video overrides in
.Ar input=output
form.
.It Ic audio_codec_map
Optional codec-specific audio overrides in
.Ar input=output
form.
.El
.Sh EXAMPLES
.Bd -literal -offset indent
mac-mp4-screen-rec add ~/Desktop
mac-mp4-screen-rec config --all-files --input-extensions mov,mkv --output-extension mp4
mac-mp4-screen-rec config --video-codec copy --audio-codec copy
mac-mp4-screen-rec config --map-video-codec hevc=libx264
mac-mp4-screen-rec config --map-audio-codec pcm_s16le=aac
mac-mp4-screen-rec config --keep-original-days 7
mac-mp4-screen-rec start
.Ed
.Sh IMPLEMENTATION NOTES
.Bl -bullet
.It
Input type and codec viability is delegated to
.Xr ffmpeg 1 .
If
.Xr ffmpeg 1
can decode the source and mux or encode the requested output, this tool can drive it.
.It
Codec-specific overrides are matched against source stream codec names reported by
.Xr ffprobe 1 .
Untouched settings stay on their configured defaults.
.It
The background job uses both
.Ic WatchPaths
and
.Ic StartInterval .
The hourly interval exists so delayed source cleanup still runs when no new files arrive.
.It
Same-extension transcodes are intentionally skipped because
.Nm
always writes a sibling output file and does not rewrite sources in place.
.El
.Sh FILES
.Bl -tag -width "~/.config/mac-mp4-screen-rec/config"
.It Pa ~/.config/mac-mp4-screen-rec/config
User configuration.
.It Pa ~/.config/mac-mp4-screen-rec/retention
Retention marker files for delayed source cleanup.
.It Pa ~/Library/LaunchAgents/com.mac-mp4-screen-rec.agent.plist
User
.Xr launchd 8
agent.
.El
.Sh EXIT STATUS
.Ex -std
.Sh SEE ALSO
.Xr ffmpeg 1 ,
.Xr ffprobe 1 ,
.Xr launchd 8 ,
.Xr launchd.plist 5
